# L0 State Channel - snapshots

### Idea

tbc

### Implementation

#### Step structure

The input for the state channel is a stream of blocks.
It is computed by an initial pipeline to create a final edge of blocks.

The input for the Cell is an `L0Edge` with checkpoint blocks. 
```scala
case class L0Edge(blocks: Set[L1Block]) extends Ω
```

The output of the Cell is a `Snapshot` class holding all the blocks provided in the `L0Edge`.
```scala
case class Snapshot(blocks: Set[L1Block]) extends Ω
```

#### Pipeline

This is for now the most complex part of an `L0` implementation.
The idea behind this pipeline is converting an initial stream of blocks into the final edge that can be consumed by the Cell.
Stream of blocks is unordered, so the pipeline must aggregate blocks within height ranges and push the Edge when the snapshot condition is met.

Snapshot condition is a formula allowing the pipeline to emit an edge for the next snapshot: `tip - tipDelay >= lastEmittedHeight + heightInterval`, where
`tip` is a minimum height of all parents used to create blocks, `tipDelay` is the initial delay before creating the very first snapshot,
`lastEmittedHeight` is a height of the previous snapshot and `heightInterval` is the range of snapshot.

The initial pipeline can be reduced to the following pseudocode which works as a more complex `scan` operator:

```scala
  case Some((Left(tip), tail)) if tip - tipDelay >= lastEmittedHeight + heightInterval =>
    // get cached blocks and output L0Edge with these blocks

  case Some((Left(tip), tail)) =>
    // increment minimum tip height

  case Some((Right(block), tail)) =>
    // add block to cache under its height 
```

#### Inner Algebra and Coalgebra

Algebra reacts on `SnapshotEnd(blocks)` class and folds all the blocks to the single `Snapshot` class.
It also reacts on `L0Error` class to produce a `CellError` class.

Coalgebra takes `CreateSnapshot(edge)` where the edge is a `Set` of blocks prepared in the initial pipeline and produces `SnapshotEnd` class.

#### StackF Algebra and Coalgebra

When the inner algebra produces a `Snapshot` or `L0Error`, it must end the computation, so here is the conversion to `Done(result)` class.
For every other case it executes the inner hylomorphism over and over again.

